#summary Useful information that I am finding to be constantly asked on our threads

= What is myLock? =

It is an app whose primary function is to replace the lockscreen. It has several sub-features that go along with this goal.

= Why did you make it? =
The guiding principle is one simple fact: we don't like having to slide to unlock.
We want to use the device on the first interaction, and not require a redundant slide action. It's a little surprising that the option not to have the lockscreen isn't already built into the OS. Off, keyguard, or pattern lock seem like suitable choices for end users, so myLock wants to step in to provide the Off category. Although the OS has provided tools for making the lockscreen go away, they are only designed for use cases like pushing a popup to the screen automatically (such as the default alarm clock). As a result we might go as far as doing a firmware mod for install on root devices to accomplish parts of the goal that are off-limits to regular apps.

= But I want a quick way to disable pattern lock also, can myLock do this? =
Yes we can. The Lite version implements this currently (started in v1a), automatically pausing pattern mode when myLock starts. It will automatically retain your pattern in the system settings and restart lockdown mode when you stop myLock.

= Will myLock also offer customization for backlight timers? =
Probably. Don't confuse the lockscreen functionality with auto-sleep or auto-dim functionalities, which are governed separately. We're working on this to see how much we can do in the boundaries set for apps. Currently we offer a stay awake toggle to prevent the timeout lock.

= Can you program customization for different buttons or touching the screen or touch buttons to wake it or unlock it? =
No. The android operating system gives us two choices only. Either stick to power button, slide open, any key on slideout (the rules set by the existing lockscreen) or else allow all keys to wake it unconditionally. We can't discriminate once in the all key mode. Keyguard disabler and screenmodewidget are examples of that mode, very simple, a bit obtuse since camera and volume keys are easy to accidental press in the pocket.

== Are you serious? You can't make a custom lockscreen and define any unlock method you want? I thought android was the bleeding edge of open development and applications without boundaries... wtf? ==
Ok, I've been thinking the same thing. So I've been working on different avenues to still get it working. In my custom lockscreen pre-alpha test build I am using code introduced in 2.0 that is used in the alarm clock to pop up an alarm that skips the lockscreen. The way it is used in the alarm clock is to let the user snooze that alarm with the volume or camera keys if that is their preference. The way I'm using it is to let the user unlock/wake up the screen with keys of their preference and keep the other keys locked down so that the screen won't come on if those keys get accidentally pressed. This test build keeps volume keys and camera focus (first stage press) locked, allows camera full press to wake the screen on a 5 second timeout so you could use the notification panel, or press back to unlock, and the power key just instantly unlocks.

= So, does this mean you can also program shake unlocking? =
No. This is thanks to a wonderful enhancement that came along with 2.0.1, blocking apps other than system apps from listening to sensors during sleep. The OS has not provided any method for apps to enforce different wakeup rules, so we have to deal with not having access to detecting shake. I'm testing to see if my same workaround to let us customize button wake will work with the shake sensor (accelerometer). So far the testing has shown that we will be able to program a combo action for shake unlock. Shake is normally locked down completely while device is locked/asleep. You can choose to allow shake waking/unlocking by doing a combo action, step 1 is pressing a normally locked down key, step 2 is doing the shake to complete the wakeup or unlock. That protects the phone from unlocking in your pocket in case you're on a bumpy bus ride or something.

= Can you create a custom lockdown mode requiring a password? =
We're researching this. It is definitely possible. There is an app called wave secure which has a lockdown like this. We just aren't sure how useful a standalone lockdown would be in the long run. It wouldn't be able to stop incoming call usage.

= Can you give preferences to answer incoming call without using the touchscreen too? =
Not sure yet. This is a really good idea, as the "call lockscreen" does stand in your way just like the regular one.

= What's the custom lockscreen? =
We are designing a very simple emulation of the stock homescreen with just a single screen, capable of displaying any widget of your choice in addition to any shortcut or app launch icon. The inspiration to create this was the existing silencer slider/clock display on the default lockscreen. Why not just make it an extra homescreen and let the user decide what to put there?

= Will the custom lockscreen support the option to still use the slide to unlock? =
Yes. Once catch with this is that Android blocks apps from taking full control of the home key, so the home key will always unlock as well. But if you would like, the option for slide to unlock will be included once the custom lockscreen hits a full-featured release. 

= What's notification preview? =
This is a plan for the full final version of the app, way down the road. We think it would be excellent to have a timeline of missed events displayed on the wakeup screen, customized by user to what types of events have the priority of being shown there. A converged view for the timeline of any unread IMs, twitter, sms, email, missed call, voicemail. We might limit this to gmail, sms, gtalk, & gvoice and see how it goes.

= It makes <insert app name> stop working... WTF? =
It is hard to make the app play nice with other home or screenwake mods because they all rely on workarounds in android to work cleanly. when all these workarounds go in and try to execute in near-tandem, unexpected results will happen. See the Troubleshooting FAQ for more details and info on apps that may interfere with myLock's operation.

= I can't find you on the market? =
That's because myLock isn't on the market yet. I would really like to be, but I'm going to need some donations, as it costs a $25 fee for devs to join the market. I am choosing to create this app as a free & open source project to benefit android lovers, so I imagine once I place it in the app store I will have a donation version also allowing people to buy it for 2 dollars alongside the free download. myLock will never contain ads.

= How do I send you my idea/feedback/bug complaint? =
Email the project mylockandroid at gmail. You can also follow us on twitter and tweet at us if your comment is short. Can't guarantee I'll notice your comments elsewhere like blog, wiki, or will be aware of posts on forums.