#summary An app/function launcer interface to be implemented both home-replacement style and as a substitute for the recent apps switcher. It can also double as the lock/wakeup screen.

= Introduction =
The idea of this function is the very straight forward purpose of organizing shortcuts you want in a happier UI that saves space and looks prettier all at once, thus being easier to call up when needed. 3 Versions are currently in planning phase - A 4x2 clock widget, a visually identical one that is a home screen replacement, and a standalone frame that acts like the recent apps switcher, able to be brought up by a button shortcut.


= Details =
On the widget/home-replacement implementation, all shortcuts hidden till we touch the GO android guy who lives at the very bottom of the screen (where the grey app drawer sits in the stock home screen). You touch it and the icons fly out, you drag the android buddy on top of any shortcut and hold there for a moment till haptic feedback occurs, then release to launch. 

= Replacing the quick 6-most-recent app switcher =
The app-switcher appears to be a type of keyguard, as it gets blocked sometimes by our skip code. 

Unless there is a new trick in 2.0, it seems that there is no good way to invoke alternative functionality or skip what's happening with the home longpress. I will have to experiment to see if we can still see when it is happening, and do a quick relock/kg skip followed by calling our shortCutter window up. I also am not sure yet what we will need to do to make sure hardware buttons can be used to launch it or wake up device. I believe we will need to stop using the method that restores the standard keyguard and instead launch a keyguard-like activity which lets us monitor the buttons while the screen is asleep.

After some thought, it appears that LOCK 2.0 is also using the home replacement trick after skipping keyguard (their app explicitly warns you not to choose it as the "Default Home" hehe). DXTOP also has the option to use or not use the keyguard. so this is quite obvious that all that's happening is a keyguard skip followed by home replacement.